Please give an example of an experience you had working with a team. What did you learn about teamwork from this experience?
(1429/1500 characters)
Full of life and friendly faces, my local mandir (temple) is not simply a religious or spiritual site; it unites a diverse community of individuals, called a parivar (family), who believe in seva (selfless service). Seva is rooted in every single practice at the temple: every devotee is a volunteer who offers what they can to help the community. The simple act of serving food is just one example of seva—a fresh hot meal is cooked and served by volunteers every day to hundreds of visitors. As a volunteer working in a group, my contributions to the mandir have ranged from clean up and food distribution to delivering sandwiches to a shelter for unhoused community members. Through this seva, many of the devotees at the mandir have become my closest friends and mentors.
The idea of people coming together to provide for one another in such a selfless and compassionate way is soul-stirring: no one is required to share, yet everyone does. Being part of a community focused on giving rather than receiving has indelibly shaped my worldview, and as one of the dozens of volunteers at the mandir, I feel a strong sense of kinship with every person there. My fellow volunteers encourage me to seek out other opportunities to practice seva in my daily life, and I particularly enjoy working outside of my comfort zone, learning from people whose lives are entirely different from mine in order to build empathy and understanding.


Tracking Climate Change with Satellites and Artificial Intelligence
Why do you want to participate in Bass Connections, and THIS team specifically?
(1457/1500 characters) 
As a born and raised Californian, I am extremely passionate about the mitigation of major wildfires, and I know that climate change is one of the most significant contributors to the frequency and intensity of fires in my area. I’m especially excited by the opportunity to combine my academic interest in AI/ML with this more personal mission. In high school, I completed a statistical analysis of the California wildfires (a project that won second place in a nationwide high school statistics competition) and took a course in Artificial Intelligence, two experiences that opened my eyes to the possibilities of using AI to predict and address future biological disasters.
        The Bass Connections program as a whole also provides exactly the type of environment in which I thrive: a small team working on a specialized project, bringing different experiences and skills to the table. I’ve loved working in a research lab for the last few months for this exact reason–applying the skills I’ve learned in my classes and my readings to real problems and policies that have tangible effects is incredibly rewarding. Collaborative partnerships across disciplines is also very appealing to me: from my research project bridging public health and world history to analyze foreign aid in Rwanda to my work in engineering and medicine with Stanford’s Harris Neuroscience Internship, I look forward to continuing interdisciplinary research as part of Bass Connections.