Srinivasan 
Anushka Srinivasan
Professor Vadde
English 190
06 September 2022
        In Robinson Crusoe, Daniel Defoe advances the argument that self-reliance allows for appreciation for one’s situation and growth in one’s skill and character. The selected passage in Chapter 4 is a key example of this theme: Crusoe’s initial days on the island are described in unsentimental prose, imitating the perspective of a man letting go of his flighty and often rash nature. These sentences contrast the more verbose and flowery language at the start of the novel (i.e. Crusoe’s father’s theory about those in the middle station of life). Defoe uses this variation in sentence pattern to emphasize how through focusing on basic survival and daily tasks, Crusoe is learning to be at peace with his station in life. 
In the latter part of the sentence, Defoe details Crusoe’s thinking and plan for building his tent, painting Crusoe as a knowledgeable and skillful man as opposed to the novice he was at the start of his adventures. Defoe writes, “I made a large tent, which to preserve me from the rains that in one part of the year are very violent there, I made double.” This level of analysis and thought lies in direct opposition to Crusoe’s earlier ways, like when he fainted at merely hearing about the possibility of having to work the pump (“Then all hands were called to the pump. At that word, my heart, as I thought, died within me: and I fell backwards upon the side of my bed where I sat, into the cabin”). The sentence structure also mirrors Crusoe’s growth in thought and manner; where before he was hesitant and unsure of his place (indicated by choppier, shorter sentences), he now is more confident and moves from one task to another with ease. 
        Defoe continues to write Crusoe as a much hardened and improved man: the “infinite labour” required of him and the “fortress” he builds to defend himself on the island heightens the adventure element of the story and therefore the appeal of Crusoe to the 18th-century English audience. Furthermore, Defoe refrains from using full stops or halting the sentence in any way; instead, he lists several items using commas and continues the sentence with semicolons and hyphens. In fact, this sentence verges on being a run-on, mimicking Crusoe’s endless trials and demonstrating how these nonstop hardships have shaped Crusoe into a better sailor and adventurer.
Finally, Defoe’s writing style reveals universal truths about his and Crusoe’s time period and culture, making Crusoe more relatable to the intended readers and reflecting Defoe’s own thoughts. In the earlier part of the sentence, Defoe writes of Crusoe, “I carried all my riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores.” Interestingly, “riches” is set apart from the rest of the list, indicating that even on a desert island where his gold has practically no value, Crusoe still holds them dear and considers them precious. Evidently, Defoe’s use of specific syntax choices and sentence patterns is critical to progressing the overall theme of self-reliance in the novel.