10) Why are you applying to this program? Please describe your personal and academic/intellectual interests in the project themes and host community. (2000 characters)


11) Meaningful Contributions. Describe one or two experiences (work, volunteering, courses, etc.) that demonstrate your ability to contribute to this program in a meaningful way. (2000 characters)


12) Flexibility/Adaptability. Describe an experience you have had that demonstrates flexibility/adaptability.
(1958/2000 characters) 
During my fellowship at UCSF’s Ward 86, I spent several clinic visits interviewing patients about their HIV treatment and pandemic experience. Prior to the first of these visits, I had prepared several specific questions designed to reveal the information I thought I needed, and I came into my first interview ready to strictly adhere to the script. At the conclusion of the first meeting, I was surprised at the dissatisfaction I felt despite having made it through my list of questions. But I concluded the interview, assuming that the feeling was just nerves. As the day wore on, I continued to feel slightly unfinished with the interviewees, and when I paused to reflect after the final interview, I finally realized that I shouldn’t have restricted the conversation to my scripted questions. By not allowing myself to be guided by the conversations, I was holding my interviewees back from opening up about the parts of their lives that they wanted to share. Had I been flexible, I could have opened up a more authentic and emotional discussion as opposed to prioritizing efficiency.
I had the opportunity to learn from my mistakes the next week, during my second clinic visit. Although I brought notes, I let my first interviewee direct the conversation, with only light guidance from my initial questions. Freed from the constraints of my prepared questions, she told me her stories—about her diagnosis, challenges with finding stable housing, mental health battles, lack of guidance from public health officials, and so much more. What should have been an ordinary interview became extraordinary, as she shared her fears, her struggles, her life. Abandoning my script and choosing to listen changed my perspective and gave me increased insight and understanding.
In my college life, I am learning that such flexibility can be extremely beneficial, and I now try to be open to the natural shifts in life rather than attempting to control every moment. 




14) Personal Views, Perceptions & Beliefs. Discuss a time when you realized that your personal views, perceptions or beliefs might be limited or mistaken. What made you realize this and what did you learn?? (2000 characters)