Anushka Srinivasan
March 31, 2021
Prompt: What is the purpose of storytelling? Compare and contrast the motivations of at least two storytellers from these collections (The Things They Carried, by Tim O’Brien, or The Refugees, by Viet Thanh Nguyen). Your argument should use detailed textual analysis to support clear claims about the possible purposes of storytelling. This is a 35-minute writing assessment.
        Kiowa, as a witness to Ted Lavender’s death, seems to use storytelling as a way to process his lack of emotion in relation to the loss. He uses harsh, succinct language to share the story of Ted Lavender’s death with Norman Bowker: “Zapped while zipping,” “Like cement,” and “boom, down” are all fairly crass descriptions of a comrade’s death. Kiowa seems to lack the filter or emotion that comes with time as he processes the death of a comrade–he describes things as “hollow and unattached,” just like his own disconnect from emotions at this moment. Therefore, he uses storytelling as a coping method, which Norman Bowker recognizes by saying, “You want to talk, talk. Tell it to me.” If Norman is able to detect Kiowa’s internal conflict and wants him to continue talking about this traumatic experience, Kiowa’s distress and confusing emotions must be almost palpable. Additionally, Kiowa seems to be trying to process the fact that he feels no grief or guilt at Lavender’s death. Kiowa “wishes he could find some great sadness, or even anger, but the emotion wasn’t there and he couldn’t make it happen. [...] He wanted to share the man’s pain, he wanted to care as Jimmy Cross cared.” Clearly, Kiowa is using storytelling as a way to understand and process the complex emotions or lack thereof he is experiencing at the moment.
        Rat Kiley similarly uses his letter to Curt Lemon’s sister as a way to process the death of a friend; however, Kiley seems to be experiencing severe guilt and grief. Lemon died while playing a dangerous game with Kiley, so it is almost expected that Kiley would feel guilty and responsible. Kiley uses his letter and storytelling almost as an apology or a final message to Lemon himself–he “has lost his best friend in the world” and had no way to process the emotions associated with such a loss. Kiley’s storytelling seemed to be a way for him to gain closure and absolve himself of the guilt, but instead, Lemon’s sister never replies and Kiley is left to contemplate the loss of his best friend alone. Kiley’s letter was a way for him to reach out to the only other person who might understand how “he loved the guy. [...]  the guy was his best friend in the world. They were like soul mates, he says, like twins or something.” Even if these sentiments are false or only partially true, they demonstrate the depth of his pain and loss. Clearly, Kiley uses storytelling to both process his emotions, like Kiowa, but also to find someone in the world who could potentially understand his grief.
        Kiley and Kiowa both turn to storytelling in the wake of a comrade’s death; however, their relationships to the deceased are as different as their stories and responses. While Kiley was close with Lemon, Kiowa was not good friends with Lavender, simply a comrade. This difference in relationship is reflected in their emotions: Kiowa is almost emotionless and detached from the situation, while Kiley throws himself into the life of the lost person, reaching out to family members and trying to make sense of his grief. From the experiences of Kiley and Kiowa, the purpose of storytelling seems to be as a way to share and process complex emotions and experiences.
________________