This week has been uncharacteristically (or maybe characteristically?) exhausting for me. I have a major presentation due for my job, somehow a massive amount of homework, and responsibilities to my friends and family that keep getting pushed to the side in favor of seemingly more important tasks. I say uncharacteristically because it feels like these feelings will pass soon; however, when I reflect on last semester, I was also in a perpetual state of high stress and anxiety. I wonder why my body and mind have chosen to trick me into believing that all my worries are fleeting and will soon be replaced by happier, more relaxing moments–and I wonder if it’s an example of what Mark calls a “self-talk strategy.” My brain is telling me that I have to be positive and hopeful for the future so that I, too, can get through each week of school and the challenges it brings. I find this strategy to be helpful in the short-term, but over the course of the last few months, it feels like the remnants of this anxiety keep getting stacked up and they feel insurmountable. I hope that I can find better ways to deal with these kinds of stressors than tricking my mind.
        The concept of meta-emotion is also something I grapple with on a daily basis. I’m stressed about how much stress I have, anxious over my wild emotions, and happy about the progress I have made in managing and understanding my emotions since middle school. I’ve always thought of my emotions as very layered, like the Earth! The crust is the emotions I show to people, the mantle is the emotions I think most about and try to understand, and the core is what I’m actually feeling (which is always hard to get to). I think meta-emotion is a great way to describe this and zoom out from what can often feel like an overwhelming web with so many layers of feelings and complexity. I wonder if this links back to the idea of writing out our thoughts and feelings–doing so helps us track them to their origin in the same way that meta-emotions help us narrow in on the root cause of an outward emotion.
        Finally, one brief comment Brene made about academia really had me thinking about my own moral and academic superiority. She said, “Because we’re trained that if it’s too accessible, we’re not that smart.” I stopped the podcast and thought a lot about the truth in her statement there. Higher education is only attained and available to a select portion of the population–would it still be so highly valued in job markets if anyone could go to college? People who obtain doctorate degrees are considered among the smartest members of our society, and their whole purpose is to study and research a topic no one has ever explored before. If everyone knew what they studied, would they still be considered smart? This single comment inspired me to consider how “smart” and “intelligent” are comparison adjectives–there’s no level of thinking or knowledge that one can reach that automatically grants them the title of being “smart.”