I turn seventeen in exactly twenty days, so it’s as good a time as any to consult my list of people who are the same age as me at this moment in time. My personal favorites for this year of sixteen are Inej Ghafa, Hiccup Haddock, Katniss Everdeen, Peter Parker, and Princess Ariel. If you caught all the references in that list, don’t worry–you’re just as sane as I am!
        If you didn’t already know, I love my books and I love my movies (although I can’t say I’m a huge TV show person). I love the characters and worlds that lie beyond a worn cover, the beautiful personalities and landscapes that spring to life with a little CGI. I love meeting new people, creatures, and places without ever leaving the comfort of my home, and I love sharing my favorite series with other people. (I’m sure many of you in the audience have had the good fortune of listening to me ramble about the pure magic that is the How to Train Your Dragon soundtrack.)
        But let’s get back on topic. Maybe it’s because I’m the oldest kid in my family, or maybe I just didn’t like the unknown, but uncovering the stories of hundreds of characters who were the same age as me yet leading entirely different lives across time and space helped me feel a little bit better about where I was in my life. And as a New Nine, coming into Castilleja, where every single person is incredibly smart, talented, and traditionally successful was like running a race I knew I could never win. After just a few months, I felt less like an excited new student and more like a social outcast who didn’t fit in at a school filled with superhumans.
It was around this time that I started to read more. I tore through dozens of books in mere weeks, always looking for another world, another story to bury myself in so I could ignore my own story. Armed with my new Kindle, I read over fifty full-length novels in two months, and I still couldn’t get enough. But as my voracious appetite for reading grew, I became less and less comfortable with myself. I was reading not for enjoyment or pleasure, but as an escape. As I closed in on 30,000 pages read, I picked up what would be my final book for some time: Six of Crows, by Leigh Bardugo. I’m going to read to you a quote from this book that changed my life: “But what about the rest of us? What about the nobodies and the nothings, the invisible girls? We learn to hold our heads as if we wear crowns. We learn to wring magic from the ordinary.”
We learn to wring magic from the ordinary. Everything clicked for me, then, as I sat in my room and pulled my head out of the clouds. The magic of the worlds I read was not in the wands or witches present; it was in those people, those characters that made horrible mistakes that made me love them more. If I could love characters who had killed people, who had betrayed their closest family and friends, who had gone to the brink of irredeemability and brought themselves back, why couldn’t I love myself? Why couldn’t I give myself a crown? I didn’t have to be an invisible girl at Casti, I could wear a crown just like all the people around me. 
I think that’s what is special about Castilleja. Every single person here wears their crown with pride. It took me some time to return to this world and reconnect with the real people around me, but I am so, so glad I did. As you can probably guess, I eventually made my way back to my books and movies, but in a much healthier way. I learned about these worlds while remaining firmly rooted in this one, because I finally figured out that there’s no story better than your own.
As I approach seventeen, I’m still learning that I can seek advice and guidance from the heroes that came before me while finding support and love in my own community. Knowing that each of my heroes turned out alright in the end is comforting when I’m panicking about a test or worried about who I might sit with at lunch. After all, if someone named Hiccup is the coolest kid in Berk, I should be okay, right?