From “Retard” to “The R-word”
By Allison


        In a middle school classroom, students work in trios, performing an experiment allowing them to explore motion and the effects of multiple forces on one object. A buzz of chatter punctuated with exclamations fills the room as students work. The task at hand? Collectively work together to navigate a ball through a drawn maze, blowing through straws to move the ball. One group is focused and has found its flow, successfully blowing the ball through two of the maze’s three turns. One team member blows a bit too hard through her straw, throwing the marble off-track. The other two team members let out small sighs with mock annoyance written across their faces. “This is retarded,” one says out of frustration. They return the marble to the beginning of their maze and begin again. 
        Retarded. In today’s society, that word fits in our catalog of insults along with words like “idiot” and “moron.” We throw it around casually, calling anything or anyone “retarded” or “a retard,” maybe in a sarcastic, joking, or completely serious manner. A survey performed by the Special Olympics Global Collaborating Center at the University of Massachusetts Boston and Harrison Interactive ii found that 92% of young Americans (ages 8-18) have heard the word “retarded” used. However, the real significance of the word, the thing that makes it stand out from any other insult, lies in its history. The term “retarded” was originally introduced in the phrase “mentally retarded,” a clinical term for those with intellectual disabilities. It was how society was supposed to refer to them. However, the words “retarded” and “retard” began to be used as insults to those with an intellectual disability, a derogatory term to put them down. In response, a movement was started that resulted in Rosa’s Law being passed in 2010. Rosa’s Law “removes the terms ‘mental retardation’ and ‘mentally retarded’ from federal health, education, and labor policy and replaces them with people first language ‘individual with an intellectual disability’ and ‘intellectual disability.’” Additionally, Special Olympics launched a website, www.r-word.org, to combat unwarranted, inappropriate use of the word. Although these measures may have helped keep those with intellectual disabilities from being called retards or retarded, the words continued to evolve, eventually growing into general insults to those with and without an intellectual disability.