Think Fund Application
The world is changing. People are losing their jobs, their salaries, and even their homes due to the current COVID-19 crisis. We need to act. Throughout the past few weeks, we have reflected on the nature of sheltering-in-place. For me, I am fortunate to have food, shelter, water, and basic amenities that are important during this difficult time. However, many individuals in our local community are struggling during this unprecedented epidemic; therefore, it is absolutely critical for us, as a community, to help those who may need additional support during this time.
As a teen kindness ambassador and a disability, equity, inclusion (DEI) advocate at Magical Bridge’s Playground and Foundation in Palo Alto, I have teamed up with Jill Asher, executive director and co-founder of the Magical Bridge Foundation; Donna Hope, manager for volunteers at Life Moves; and a few local teens to meet an immediate and urgent need. As of now, shelters and opportunity centers desperately need a range of toiletries. This includes soap, shampoo, toothbrushes, deodorants, and numerous other toiletries. We intend to reach out to the local community to collect, gather and donate these urgent items to The Opportunity Services Center in Palo Alto and the homeless shelter Villa in San Jose. Specifically, the Palo Alto Opportunity Shelter offers their “guests” to take showers at their facility every day. Moreover, there is an urgent need to collect diapers of all sizes and hand-made face masks. These will be delivered to Life Moves’ shelters throughout Santa Clara County, as there are around one thousand seniors, adults, and children staying at these shelters every night.
In order to achieve this, I have chosen an unorthodox way of spreading the message. With the help of other teens, we would like to send letters and postcards to as many people as possible in Palo Alto in order to raise awareness for those who need assistance. Most of these letters will be handwritten and include a request for a donation of urgently needed items (some of which are listed above). With the Think Fund grant, we would like to purchase a sufficient amount of materials in order to send postcards to households within the community; we believe that a personalized card with physical handwriting holds much more meaning than communication via email or messaging where text is copied, pasted, and sent to a list of individuals. Any excess funds will be used to purchase items for the opportunity center and homeless shelters. In addition, we will be utilizing the Magical Bridge donor base and email lists, social media, Nextdoor, and other tools to voice our requests to the local community.
As teens, we are powerful and can spark change. Everyone will see what younger generations are passionate about and support us in any way they can, especially if what we are advocating for is beneficial to the community. This grant will help and change the mindset of thousands of individuals and support many others in need, which, to us, is priceless and worth much more than what money can buy.