There are many reasons why the turtles are in trouble; some natural and others are people driven problems. For example, only about one in every 1000 eggs laid makes it to the ocean (even less make it to adulthood). One unexplained cause for this is the switch from night to daylight nesting (building the nest, laying eggs, and hiding them in the sand before leaving). Daylight nesting is increasingly common because turtles are somehow being affected by humans and have developed irregular nesting patterns (i.e. nesting too close to the ocean so eggs are washed away, not coming back to lay eggs as often as they should, etc.). This broken cycle also interferes with how the hatchlings develop… If the eggs are laid during daytime, there could be fertilization issues. 
There are also people-driven causes, such as injuries related to fishing, coastal construction, and both land and water pollution. Often, a turtle may be injured by boats or caught in a fishing net. Sadly, too injured, they end up dying from hunger and fatigue or being released improperly (ripped from the net, causing damage to limbs, which makes survival difficult). In even sadder cases, fishermen will find the turtle caught in a net and take it home for a “delicacy” meal. 
In the case of development, noise from beachfront homes, restaurants, and hotels may disturb nesting sea turtles, often causing them to go back to the ocean without having laid their eggs. These buildings bring artificial light, which also affects hatchlings, because they use the moonlight to guide themselves back to the ocean. Turtles rely on the fact that the moon should be the brightest object at night, but with household lights being on at all hours, that is now unfortunately not the case. The poor hatchlings, guided by house lights, go inland, often dying because of starvation (In the water, they eat a variety of prey including crustaceans, fish eggs, seaweed, and, of course, jellies). This is why colored lights are used at Playa Grande, so that turtles aren’t confused and people can see quite clearly. Coastal construction can also change the shape of beaches, making them too steep for nesting leatherbacks to get up and out of the water. 
The last major human issue is pollution. Many different sea turtle organizations bring this problem up because it affects sea turtles a lot. Because they have no teeth, adult turtles feed primarily on jellyfish and other soft-bodied marine animals. Plastic bags can be confused as jellyfish, a fatal mistake for a sea turtle. Unfortunately, plastic bags have been found in thousands of turtles. (As an example, a large adult leatherback turtle was ever ingested 3-foot long plastic bag) Also, thanks to global warming and too many fossil fuels being released into the atmosphere, more female turtles are being produced and less and less males (temperature determines gender; if it’s above 29.5 degrees Celsius in the nest, female hatchlings will be produced, and if it’s below 29.5 degrees Celsius in the nest, male hatchlings will be produced). As you can see, turtles of all ages are affected by activities, both human and natural. (leatherback.org)